For this project we used many differenet types of frontend development tools. Such as Express HTML, Javascript, and Single-Page application (SPA). The differences between SPA and Express are noticeable from the backend more than the frontend. The reason the frontend wont notice much is simply because Express might load a bit faster, but we wont notice the milisecond differences. The backend changes drastically between the two. For example, Express will be server rendered HTML pages that typically use templating to dynamically create webpages. Creating a template will often use Handlebars. SPA however will load the HTML pages dynamically, uploading the webpages as the user interacts with it, without the use of templates. Instead it will rely heavily on Javascript frameworks like React or Angular. The backend for this project, relyed on MongoDB. The reason for this was for the SPA, in where there were multiple different trips that needed to be held and generated. The SPA backend used the MongoDB information to generate webpages properly, using the information stored, added, or updated.
Javascript and Json are cmpletely different. Javascript being a programming language, while JSON stands for Javascript Object Notation; which isn't a language. Instead JSON is similar to a dictinary in Javascript. The difference being a JSON Will look like this `{"name": "John"}` while javascript looks like `const person = {name: "John" }`. JavaScript is a programming language used to create dynamic web pages and applications, while JSON is a data format used for storing and exchanging data.
This course was a very useful tool formy professional goals as a future developer. It gives me incite into how to debug and use many different things around frontend development and website building. This course gave me tremendous incite into how REST works, which in terned helepd me a bit within my work experence as a Software Automation Engineer, as we're trying to build something that functions off of REST calls.
